Waku Confirmations Enabled and Light Node Field Descriptions (#128)
vacp2p/rfc: specs/waku/waku-1.md

## Definitions

| Term            | Definition                                                                              |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Light node**  | A Waku node that does not forward any envelopes through the Messages packet.            |

> | **Envelope**    | Messages sent and received by Waku nodes. Described in [ABNF spec `waku-envelope`](#abnf-specification) |

Reviewer: I'm unsure about mentioning the abnf spec here. Perhaps we should put something general regarding this in the intro, else we might end up repeating this many more times.

Author: I don't have a problem with this, but whatever is implemented needs to make it easy for a reader to navigate directly to the Envelope related information. The main reason I implemented this change is because when I was reading these docs I wanted to go back and refer to the Envelope specific section, and I couldn't find it.

After your comment on Discuss I could see that there was no dedicated section for Envelopes and that it was under the umbrella of the ABNF spec. It wasn't easy for me find this information, and this change is designed to make it easy for anyone that is looking for Envelope specific information.

Most other items defined in the ABNF spec have a dedicated paragraph explaining a little more about them. I didn't want to change the document too much, so I felt that pointing the reader to the place where Envelope is defined would be more agreeable than introducing a new paragraph.

Reviewer: Yeah, I understand the reasoning behind it. Not a big issue for me, could stay also, merely a remark that I rather don't see the spec ending up having links everywhere to the ABNF spec.

Author: Ok, I understand. I think that Envelope would be the only item that requires a reference to the ABNF spec, as all other items are given a dedicated section. Or are at least covered in a relevant section.

Each node SHOULD respect rate limits advertised by its peers. The number of packets SHOULD be throttled in order not to exceed peer's rate limits. If the limit gets exceeded, the connection MAY be dropped by the peer.

> ##### light Node Field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Light Node Field
```

> Light Node represents a boolean option. When true, the peer SHOULD NOT forward Envelopes through the Messages packet (`0x01`).

Reviewer: This is to inform a peer that this node is a light node, and thus that it will not relay any messages (and as such the peer might decide to disconnect). 
The current sentence sounds ambiguous to me and could be interpreted as if the peer should not forward envelopes to the peer with the light node setting.

I'm also not sure if we should repeat the boolean part here. Redundant because of ABNF spec

Author: >The current sentence sounds ambiguous to me and could be interpreted as if the peer should not forward envelopes to the peer with the light node setting.

That's true, let me amend this.

>I'm also not sure if we should repeat the boolean part here. Redundant because of ABNF spec

The ABNF spec defines `light-node` as a `BIT` which is implicitly a boolean, but I wanted to make it explicitly clear.

I think ideally this field should have been named `light-node-enabled` (like `confirmations-enabled`) making it clear in the name that this field has a binary state. Perhaps we could add this to the list of changes for Waku V2?

Author: Actually on reflection, I'll remove the mention of boolean, as the next sentence makes it clear that it is a boolean with "When true ..."

##### Confirmations Enabled Field

> Confirmations enabled represents a boolean option. When true, the peer SHOULD send [message confirmations](#batch-acknowlege-and-message-response).

Reviewer: Perhaps same as above, perhaps not, as I don't know how confirmations work and in which direction this confirmations enabled field works.

Author: I checked in the `status-go` code and the only usage I can see is:

https://github.com/status-im/status-go/blob/2d13ccf5ec3db7e48d7a96a7954be57edb96f12f/waku/v1/peer.go#L535-L547

```go
	// mark envelopes only if they were successfully sent
	for _, e := range bundle {
		p.Mark(e)
		event := common.EnvelopeEvent{
			Event: common.EventEnvelopeSent,
			Hash:  e.Hash(),
			Peer:  p.EnodeID(),
		}
		if p.confirmationsEnabled {
			event.Batch = batchHash
		}
		p.host.SendEnvelopeEvent(event)
	}
```

Which seems to check if the peer's `status-option.ConfirmationsEnabled` is true. If true add the `batchHash` to the `EnvelopeEvent`. This pushes the `EnvelopeEvent` on to the event queue. The `protocol\transport\waku` event handler checks if the `event.Batch` is equal to `event.Hash`, if it is `m.handler.EnvelopeSent()` is triggered, this seems to be the trigger for sending the message confirmation.

Which seems to suggest that if a peer has a its `confirmations-enabled` set to true, the host should send a confirmation.

@cammellos sorry to bug you, is this correct?

Reviewer 2: mmmh, this has puzzled me for a while.
 
I understood it was the other way aronud:

If a host has confirmation enabled, it will send confirmations to any peer (regardless on whether confirmations are enabled on the peer), I was looking at https://github.com/status-im/status-go/blob/2d13ccf5ec3db7e48d7a96a7954be57edb96f12f/waku/v1/peer.go#L263 

But looking at the code that you posted now makes me doubt that.

What I can see, is that in `Whisper` confirmations were enabled unless explicitly disabled:

https://github.com/status-im/status-go/blob/2d13ccf5ec3db7e48d7a96a7954be57edb96f12f/whisper/whisper.go#L104

And the comment is "do not reply with confirmations", so the intent is clear.

We then changed this to be explicitly confirmed in waku, and I noticed in the scope of the PR for images that it was never set in the config in the nodes on the fleets (I asked jakubs to enabled it), still messages were actually being confirmed, not sure exactly how/why.

I checked the client (status-react) and does not explicitly set confirmations enabled for waku (whisper they were on, as we did not set disableConfirmations).

I think there's enough confusion to make our own judgement call here.

The simplest behavior would be that if a host has confirmation enabled, it will send confirmations to any peer, regardless.

That would make the field in status-options (`ConfirmationsEnabled`) redundant, or at best just used for informative reasons (this node will send you confirmations), so I would remove it. 

I would not use it to indicate that the peer wants to receive information as it would overload the function of it, rather if we want that behavior I'd create a different field `WouldYouMindSendingMeConfirmationsPlease`)

// Digression starts
As a matter of fact, I would almost be tempted to couple `ConfirmationsEnabled` with `IsMailserver`, assuming that if it is a `Mailserver` it will send confirmations (I don't see a use case for a mailserver not sending confirmations, if the feature is not needed anymore, we can remove confirmations all together), but that's another story. 
At that point we could communicate the capabilities of a node in the handshake, i.e `IsMailserver`/`NodeInfo`, but I digress as not currently useful for any client, as mailservers are known in advance.
// Digression ends

TLDR:
I would remove `ConfirmationsEnabled` from the handshake and peer state, and remove the check in the code you posted above, leaving the behavior as simply:

If a host has `ConfirmationsEnabled` on, it will send confirmations to any peer.

Author: Thank you @cammellos, I'm pleased it wasn't just me being slow witted.

For the sake of this PR I'll make the amendment that `confirmations-enabled` means that the peer will send confirmations to the host.

If we want to discuss the removal of `confirmations-enabled` from the spec, I suppose we can do that in ever growing list of improvements for Waku V2. I can make an issue for these if you like.

I'll open an issue to track the check removal from the `status-go`, (otherwise I'll forget 😄).

> #### Batch Acknowlege and Message Response

Reviewer: Can we call it Batch Ack as that's how its called in the rest of the spec. Or rename all to Batch Acknowledge.

Author: Ok, maybe I can change the first instance of "Batch Ack" to "Batch Acknowledge (Batch Ack)" and then keep all other instances as "Batch Ack". WDYT?

Reviewer: Well, while I'd normally be fine with that, the issue is perhaps that `batch-ack` in the ABNF spec is the first instance.

Author: That's a good point. What about adding Batch Ack to definitions?

Each node SHOULD respect rate limits advertised by its peers. The number of packets SHOULD be throttled in order not to exceed peer's rate limits. If the limit gets exceeded, the connection MAY be dropped by the peer.

##### Light Node Field

> When the host's `light-node` field is set to true, the host SHOULD NOT forward Envelopes from its peers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the node's `light-node` field is set to true, the node SHOULD NOT forward Envelopes from its peers.
```

> A host connected to a peer with the `light-node` field set to true MUST NOT depend on the peer for forwarding Envelopes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A node connected to a peer with the `light-node` field set to true MUST NOT depend on the peer for forwarding Envelopes.
```

##### Confirmations Enabled Field

> When the host's `confirmations-enabled` field is set to true, the host SHOULD send [message confirmations](#batch-ack-and-message-response) to its peers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the node's `confirmations-enabled` field is set to true, the node SHOULD send [message confirmations](#batch-ack-and-message-response) to its peers.
```

##### Light Node Field

> When the `light-node` field is set to true, the host is communicating to its peers that it will not forward Envelopes through the Messages packet (`0x01`).

Reviewer 3: I don't really like this change. It removed rfc2119 language.

Author: see above

##### Confirmations Enabled Field

> When the `confirmations-enabled` field is set true, the host is communicating to its peers that it will send [message confirmations](#batch-acknowledge-and-message-response).

Reviewer 3: I don't really like this change. It removed rfc2119 language.

Author: It was me that added that language in the first place. I'll think of a way to rephrase this in a way that includes rfc2119
